Kind: captions Language: en Most YouTubers calculate the true value or intrinsic value of a stock by hand and only look at one stock, one formula, zero backtesting, and absolutely no validation.
So, today I will share with you a value investing bot that I created that uses company fundamentals, [music] bond yields, and growth rates to automate investing across hundreds of stocks.
In the end, we should end up with a fully verified foundational code that we can use where I implement your viewer suggestions to build the ultimate value investing bot.
Intrinsic value is a proven concept.
Buffett talks about it.
There are entire YouTube channels with actual PhDs recommending this as a valid and careful make long-term investments.
It's simply a method of calculating what a stock is truly worth based on company fundamentals and then purchasing companies that have a market value that is much less than the intrinsic value.
Basically, like you're buying a company at a discount.
But, the way most people present it on YouTube has three major problems.
They calculate the value by hand on a single stock, which is just not scalable.
One equation is used in isolation, so there is no validation by using other methods to calculate the true value of a stock.
And most importantly, the method is never backtested, so you have no idea if it actually works.
For those that don't know me, I'm a PhD graduate in physics and I use my technical background to build real investing programs, not to get rich quick, but to build real wealth to give me more options in life.
Last video, I built a Graham model calculator and the results were a tad underwhelming.
The code was filled with bugs, but we laid a foundation of which we can build upon and improve in the current video.
This video, I will fix my model, validate it manually to weed out any bugs, and set ourselves up to add additional methods of calculating the intrinsic value.
A commenter in the last video flagged potential bugs in the code and I completely agree.
This code is probably a bug-riddled nest, but we can fix it.
We should do manual validation.
And the best way I can think of approaching this is to literally manually enter company fundamentals into a spreadsheet, rebuild the model with the Graham style equation incorporating AAA bond yields, and manually calculate the Graham based intrinsic value.
This is super tedious, but it should be easy.
And doing this will set ourselves up for later on in the video to have more confidence to plug in whatever group of stocks we're interested in and get an accurate buy signal.
If the numbers disagree, the code is completely wrong and every investment decision the code makes would be meaningless.
If the code matches, we now have a validated scalable tool, something that none of these other value investors have.
For simplicity, I can pick a company.
I'll walk through the Graham formula step-by-step and validate that each value calculated agrees with the code that I wrote.
Okay, so I've pulled up the stock ticker for ABBV.
This is an output generated by our intrinsic value code.
You can see in the top we have our date, open, high, low, close.
Coming over here, we have our earnings per share for the quarter, trailing 12 months, estimated growth rate, bond yield, and the Graham intrinsic value.
What I've done is I've recreated this exactly in a different sheet, manually going line by line.
I calculate myself the trailing 12 months earnings per share, the estimated growth rate, and then we can go over and say, "Okay, so the estimated growth rate calculated here is -0.11." Let's move over to our sheet and see if this is actually in agreement.
Okay, perfect.
So, we have our first growth rate right here.
This corresponds to a date of 2014-04-25.
2014-04-25.
Okay, so that is exactly in agreement.
The estimated growth rate agrees.
The bond yield also is grabbed from a table.
So, this is literally just downloaded from the internet for each date in time.
So, it'll go here and say, "Okay, this is the reported date.
Go to our bond yield chart and search through this to find the bond yield on that day." And then just add it in.
Now, if we go over to our code and look at the intrinsic value, you can see, yes, that agrees, -71.339.
Now that we know that the intrinsic value is being calculated correctly, we can take this a step further.
Also, since many of you have asked, yes, I've included a link in the description to my GitHub sponsors page, where you can download this code for yourself and get the benefits of future code updates.
Now that the code is independently validated, we can explore this automated investing system.
the produce data module, and it will compile the date, open, high, low, close values, calculate the trailing 12 months of earnings per share, look up the AAA bond yield for each date in our list, and calculate an estimated growth rate and intrinsic value.
Then we run the backtesting script that takes in all of this data and will invest in stocks based on if their market value has fallen to be much smaller than the intrinsic value.
The algorithm for determining if we should buy is pretty straightforward.
We want to buy a stock at a discount, maybe half off.
So, what we want is for the market value to be half of the intrinsic value or lower.
The expression for this would look something like the market value is less than [music] or equal to the intrinsic value multiplied by a discount factor, right?
Let's look at an example.
If the market value of a company is currently $10 and the true or intrinsic value that we calculate, basically what it should be at, is $20, by having a 50% discount, we can observe the following condition: is $10 less than or equal to the $20 intrinsic value that we've calculated multiplied by 0.5 for a 50% discount.
Yes, this is true because $10 is equal to $10.
And if the company is even cheaper, say $9, even better.
It's even better than a 50% discount.
So, we should totally buy that.
What if the discount factor is zero?
Well, a discount factor of zero to me says that we should just get no discount and that we would want to buy the stock the moment the market value just barely has reached the intrinsic value or is, you know, even cheaper than that.
Now, looking at our example, imagine the market value is $10 and the intrinsic value is also $10.
At a discount of 0%, we should buy this because we've gotten no discount.
But, is $10 less than $10 times a discount of zero?
We can see that no, $10 is not less than zero, so we should not buy this.
So, we're going to have to change the equation.
We can change it to the following: the market value is less than or equal to the intrinsic value multiplied by 1 minus the discount factor.
We can look at the example again to see if we have fixed the mental algorithm we were trying to implement.
The market value is currently $10.
The intrinsic value is $10 and we want a 0% discount.
Well, yes, $10 is less than or equal to $10.
They're equal.
So, this is the equation we actually want to implement in our code.
Now, with the code validated and our mental model for a buy signal implemented, let's explore what discount factors may be appropriate to achieve maximum returns and find stocks at their biggest discounts.
Let's talk about case one and this is if the discount factor is zero, meaning that the market value could be equal to or less than the true intrinsic value of the stock.
And potentially, the stock is actually exactly where it should be.
You're getting it for absolutely no discount.
The company is worth exactly what it should be worth based on company fundamentals.
And you expect in this case that the returns are relatively low.
If we set an upper bound limit of 50 stocks in our portfolio at any one point in time for this backtest, we see that all 50 stocks in our portfolio are immediately populated because the criteria for a buy is just so low.
We don't need any discount.
So the backtest buys a bunch of stocks that meet this criteria.
The corresponding portfolio backtest shows that the intrinsic value method underperforms a buy and hold strategy for the S&amp;P constituents list in the gray dash line, which kind of makes sense.
In case two, the discount factor is .2.
So we're searching for a discount of 20%.
And the stock is 20% cheaper than the true intrinsic value.
Trading the moderate discount of 20% gave a result that was consistent with no discount, which is a little bit surprising.
The entire portfolio fills up with stocks that see a moderate discount with respect to their intrinsic value.
And this creates a return that is similar to searching for stocks with basically no discount.
In case three, the code to the limit of a discount factor of 50%, which I believe might be appropriate because as we approach one, you'll see that well, we would be looking for stocks that have a value below zero, which doesn't make any [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] sense.
Even at a 50% discount, the portfolio immediately accepts a bunch of stocks because the criteria is being met.
This tells me that the Graham model for evaluating intrinsic value is probably unreliable given that I do not trust that I'm finding so many stocks at a 50% discount.
Or there are improvements that can be made in, for example, estimating the growth rate of a company.
But at a glance, some intrinsic values are actually negative or even massive compared to the true value of that stock, meaning that even at high discounts, the code will still buy that stock.
Okay, case four.
You know what?
[&nbsp;__&nbsp;] it.
Why not?
90% discount, let's go.
Something that's not really possible if the intrinsic value is correctly being calculated, but it would be interesting to see what the code gives us.
We can see that a lot less tickers are being included in our portfolio in time, which makes sense.
There are less companies that have a 90% discount factor.
However, even with this, see that the returns are far less than if we had bought the entire list and held.
Which makes me ask the question, what the hell is going on here?
You want [&nbsp;__&nbsp;] it.
What if we just buy every single damn stock in our list?
And what I found out and what we see is a little bit interesting.
The returns were still less than the buy and hold, even with a massively large negative discount factor where we should be forced to buy absolutely everything.
So, is this a bug in the code?
Well, sort of.
I mean, what I realized was that some of the stocks don't have a Graham value calculated for them.
And that gray dash line I was comparing to earlier.
In the reconstructed S&amp;P from our list with an equal weighted portfolio across all stocks in my backtest.
And we are comparing to that as our benchmark.
But, if the backtest is skipping over companies that we were unable to have a calculated intrinsic value for, then this is no longer a fair comparison.
Because some of those companies in that backtest that we're not including in the intrinsic value calculation could be companies that performed super super well.
So, what we should be saying is that if we can calculate an intrinsic value, does buying a stock at a value-based discount actually give you an improved return?
So, I went ahead and I fixed this by altering the benchmarked gray dash line S&amp;P reconstructed index to only invest in companies that have an intrinsic value calculated for them to make this a fair comparison.
In a real investing scenario, you would just invest in companies that you could calculate an intrinsic value for.
So, that's fine.
We can see now that there is a closer agreement between the reconstructed S&amp;P index and the intrinsic value model when we say that you should just buy all the stocks.
Now, technically, these two lines should be exactly the same, but perhaps there are issues with the dates lining up.
But, you know what?
This is good.
It's like 90% the way there.
Now, we can continue in the final comparison, which is the fixed version of this code.
Produce a run where we use a discount of 50% once again and accept the portfolio to contain up to 100 stocks.
Now, these results are surprising and show that the corrected 50% discount we employ is still not enough to beat the baseline.
Likely, we will need to make changes to how we calculate the true value of a stock or debug this further as there could be something I'm missing.
What we have now is something no intrinsic value YouTuber has shown you, a totally validated, scalable backtesting tool.
It's not perfect, but it's real and could be iterated upon.
And in the next video, I plan to implement a discounted cash flow model, which we can use in parallel with the Graham model to hypothetically increase our accuracy.
Now, moving forward, we will continue to make iterative improvements to this code based on your suggestions.
So, if you can think of something, please leave a comment below.
And if you want to get the script for yourself, you can support my work by becoming a GitHub sponsor and unlocking access to all my private code repositories, of which are updated regularly and contain most of the data you will need to perform the backtest.
You can see the link below.
Like and subscribe so you don't miss future videos, and I'll catch you guys in the next one.